We've talked a lot about moving data
methods computed all of you have done that
successfully.
But the one thing I have intentionally
left off because it's kind of different in
the script setup is the idea of
basically what our compiler macros.
So what our compiler macros Well, let's
go ahead and open up the nav bar here.
And so let me go ahead and
now hide this Yep, perfect.
Okay.So let's go ahead and convert
this over to TypeScript real quick.
So script set up, Lang Ts.
And then, save, that's gone?
That's gone.
Okay, we're gonna comment
out the props for a second.
And then we're just going to quickly
say const nov list, equals a ref.
And rap it just like that.
And so here's an example, right, where
we're progressively enhancing a, whoop,
I have the wrong thing here.
Here we go.
We're progressively enhancing
the component you can see
here with TypeScript.
But you'll notice though that,
actually let me import ref real quick, so
that y'all can not be
distracted by the red squiggly.
I'm not actually going out of my
way to define a custom type for
what is inside of this nav list.
Because, first of all at this moment,
it's fairly straightforward.
And if we look at the ref,
it already knows it's a name and a path.
Now granted, if over time you
start building like nav items and
you want it to follow
a specific structure,
there's certainly a rationale to do so
but this is where It's important to try
to differentiate when something
is valuable to do and
versus when something is just done for
the sake of purity for purity sake.
Now, that said, we still haven't defined
this props though and how do we do that?
And so compiler macros essentially our
views way of providing you functionality
that will not impact the built the bundle
that's ultimately output it And so
we have this basically a helper
function called define props.
And this again once again,
this function is a compiler macro
that's specific to script setup.
So you actually can't use this or
you shouldn't really be
using it outside of setup.
And so inside of this,
this this define props.
What we can do is similarly to how we
normally define prompts, we can just say
tagline And then we can do things like
type: String, and required: true.
So this is where define Props,
this looks pretty familiar.
So we take that concept now, and
let's look at something a little bit more
advanced Let's go ahead and
take a look at the restaurant card.
Here is where we can actually start
to yeah, let's play with this one.
Okay.
So on the restaurant card you'll
see here that we have a prop.
That's a complex type.
It's an object that is
supposed to be a restaurant.
And it also had this amid thing
which we'll talk about in a second.
And then otherwise we need to go ahead and
move this over.
So, let's go and do that real quick.
We'll have set up we'll take care of
that let's comment this block out first.
And then once here, we have const status
Color = computed rap that Arrow function.
That's it.
And then here we have our
delete restaurant and
then that is a function.
And then we will comment this out for
a second because this won't work.
Okay?
Okay so here we have everything and so
using what we just learned about compiler
macros we said that there was a defined
props helper helper method right and
so one things we could do is we could
do the same thing as before we could
say restaurant And it's a type
object as prop type restaurant.
And then we can say require true,
right this seems familiar.
But what if we want to do this a little
bit more like natural TypeScript?
Well, one of things we can do is we
can actually provide the types to
define props.
As a basically through type casting.
So in other words, we could, for
example, call it prop types.
I'll just call it like that.
And we say there is a thing
called a restaurant
that is of type restaurant just like that.
And so the way this will look inside of
your props is rather than defining it
inside of the parameters of the
parentheses If you use the greater than
less than symbol brackets, and
then you just pass in Prop types and
then this provides you a little bit more
of that like organic type script field.
However, one of the things you might be
thinking of is well, okay, so for example,
here we are,
this is pure TypeScript world.
So if you we can't just go like this
is actually a type restaurant and
we can't be like required true you know
default whatever this is not going
to work because this is not an actual
JavaScript object so, If you want to do
something that's required, remember
that inside of typescript as long as you
define a property on an object,
it's by default required.
So that's already on.
If you actually want it to be optional,
then this is where you might put
the question mark as per the part of it.
Actually not Oops, I forgot.
Sorry, go back here.
You would want to put it like this.
And then you're saying that
this prop is optional and
not required on the component.
The thing though,
is that something that we often
do do when it comes to props
is we want a default value.
And so this is something that's
currently in an experimental phase, but
I'll show you how I've seen
some of it done before.
So there's two ways to do this one is that
there is I forgot which Bill this was but
at one point, there was
a proposition to do it like this.
Where you had this use defaults are used
with defaults helper, and then you would
pass in another object that was like
restaurant and then like default values.
For me this is kind of clunky cuz
you have this like define props and
you're wrapping it with use a default
that you're passing in a second argument
that happens to be it feels a little.
Feels a little clunky.
So the way that's currently being
experimented with here in the docs,
which I'll definitely link to, is,
let me blow it up a little bit,
is it's basically reactive destructuring.
So basically, you would actually
define your props as normal.
But then as a result of
using normal JavaScript,
where you destruct the process you would
normally wanna use you just assign
the default like values then
which is actually fairly,
like one to one with actually what we
come to expect with JavaScript actually.
And so, granted again,
at least at the time of this recording,
this is an experimental feature that
needs opt in inside of your build.
But this is the direction
it does looks like.
This is the direction that D3 is heading
as far as using defined props so
that you can provide default values.
In the meantime, though, if you really
want basically what I would recommend
just to keep things simple,
did I delete it?
I did delete it.
Is while the casting is nice.
I honestly don't.
I think for the most part,
it's totally fine to just keep it as is to
just say restaurant type object
as prop type restaurant, and
then just a fine your default
here as part of your definition.
There's nothing wrong with this.
Again, we'll find better ways
of doing it but for now,
if you really do want to default
this is one way to do it.
That said, there's nothing stopping you
as well from like assigning another
reactive value that will then like
take the profit if it's empty set it,
as we know programming, there's a lot
of different ways to do things.
So, don't feel tied in, but for now,
we're gonna assume there's no default.
So, it's totally fine, we'll just use
his typecasting, to do, define prompts.
Okay, it's gonna delete that,
can delete that.
Okay, now we've define our props.
And then actually one sec,
I need to actually import computed.
So this thing stops yelling at me.
And then we have.
Okay, here's the next problem though.
You'll notice though,
that inside of options API,
we typically could refer to the props
directly because it was on the disc object
it was automatically inherited.
But that's no longer the case because
we have it where we have it inside of
defined props.
So how do we get access to it?
Well, we create a variable
that we want to reference.
So typically it's this constant props.
That's simple.
And then that way your,
this becomes props.restaurant.status.
And so you'll see though,
which is just interestingly enough.
Is that TypeScript is yelling at us.
It's saying that hey as of right now and
based on how you defined the props it
might actually be undefined, so
I can't actually run this block of code.
And so this is where type guards come
into play so if we want we could say,
if props dot restaurant exists,
then run all this code, right?
And then as you can see
here with that type guard,
TypeScript knows that it can
assume that type restaurant
will have its see all the properties that
it needs and then it can run through and
that's actually helpful because as we know
when you build your code sometimes we do
miss these little edge cases and
things do break because we forgot to like
yeah in this particular data type
something like this needs to happen before
something like this happens type two does
help you to kind of remind you of that.
However, in our case,
this is a required prop.
So in that case,
the type guard is really not necessary.
So this way you can see it's not
yelling at me cuz I'm promising it,
that it will get the value that it wants.